>> Bianca Gandolfo: Binary search tree.
So we implemented it,
we did some exercises,
now we're gonna talk about exploring them.
So we did a little bit of exploration,
right?
When I think about
exploration in an algorithm,
I think about basically
touching every single node in
a tree looking at every item in an array.
Going all the way from head to tail on
the link list and traversing through.
So that, you could maybe do some
transformations with your data.
That would be the main thing.
Or,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I don't know, maybe
you wanna add up all of the numbers in
your binary search tree for some reason?
Whatever it is, you want to look at
every node in your binary search tree,
we would be doing these traversals.
So there's three different ones.
And the order is important, mostly
because binary search trees are ordered.
And the order for
whatever your implementation is,
is probably gonna matter.
And so
that's why we have these three orders.
So let's just look at our
picture really quick.
So let's imagine that we're
looping through, and we want to
make this the most excited
binary search tree in the world.
And this is my favorite
data transformation.
It's really good for
Twitter plugins when your Twitter
feed is just full of boring people, and
you want to loop, and you just want to
concatenate some explanation points at the
end, to give some excitement to your life.
So that would be
an excitement transformation.
We just put usually three.
I think three is good.
Maybe two.
One if you're kind of subdued
at the end of each data, right?
So, in the case that it's your Twitter
feed, the data would be the text
nodes in your twitter feed, and
in this case we have these numbers and
we'll just transform it into exciting
numbers with exclamation points.
So to make that happen we need to visit
all of our friends here in our tree,
and that's what we're gonna do.
What do you think the time complexity
of that kind of operation is?
I mean, it's super useful, and
it's something you need to do every day.
So it's good to know what the time
complexity of that kind of operation,
every time you wanna
make your data structure
excited.
>> Speaker 2: Linear?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why do we think this
is linear?
>> Speaker 2: To do one thing to all of
the things?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
So it's gonna to be linear because
you're visiting every node once.
Hopefully just once.
If you're doing more than once then
you're probably doing something extra.
>> Speaker 2: Too much excitement.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, too exciting.
And so,
if our binary search tree doubled, right?
It's twice as much work.
That's the idea behind a linear algorithm,
great.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So, before we jump in.
We've done some exploration before,
it's not our first rodeo.
How have we explored a linked list
in the past?
>> Speaker 2: Well,
we'd start at the beginning and
then we'd go on the next object.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: How do you say that in
coding language, though?
>> Speaker 2: We traverse?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah,
you traversed it.
What piece of JavaScript did
you use to make that happen?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: There was not
abracadabra, explore link list!
>> Speaker 2: Loop
through?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
We use a loop.
What kind of loop do we use?
>> Speaker 2: You use the Y loop.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
For our linked list, if you wanna explore
it, we did a little bit when we were just
searching through our linked list when we
will contains for a linked list yesterday.
Is it yesterday?
Think so, I get my days confused.
So we explored it simply by doing a Y
loop, we just made sure we didn't have
an infinite Y loop by
incrementing to the next next,
the next this dot next equals this
dot next next, something like that.
Cool, seems pretty straightforward.
Right start at this, and you go this
dot next, this dot next dot next,
this dot next dot next dot next,
all the way until you get to this
dot next dot next dot next dot next.
And then you just can't say it anymore.
So that's how we explore Linked List.
What about an Array?
We wanted to look at all
elements in the Array,
I think we do this almost every day.
>> Speaker 2: It's for a loop.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Mm-hm.
Just for loop, look through it,
concatonate all those
exclamation points as needed.
Cool, object?
>> Speaker 2: For
loop?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: For
in loop usually.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: What about our stack
and queue?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: It's kind of a trick
question, you're not supposed
to be able to do that.
>> Speaker 2: Right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH]
>> Speaker 3: I was gonna say do we do
that?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: No.
>> Speaker 3: You have to [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I mean you could
probably do it, right, but
you're not really supposed to.
The whole point of the stack and queue is
you are not supposed to be able to look
through it in the very
generic implementation.
But, create it as you will as you need for
your life.
And you'll be like,
I really need a stack or a queue,
where I can look at everything.
Except Bianca said that
I shouldn't do that-
>> Speaker 3: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So now,
now what do I do?
Cool, awesome.
So we are explorers, we have
Indiana Jones hats and stuff like that,
we know how to get down.
Now we're going to talk about how
we might do this with a tree.
A binary tree, specifically.
So, the first one is called
an in-order traversal.
Why do you think it might be
called an in-order traversal?
>> Speaker 2: Equalling in order.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
it goes in order.
But what's the order exactly?
>> Speaker 2: From smallest to biggest.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
you're gonna go from smallest to biggest,
exactly.
So how do we do that?
Well in this picture
it makes it look easy.
>> Speaker 3: That is so cool.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: You just follow
the dotted line obviously, right?
You start at 11,
you follow the dotted line,
you show up at three.
>> Speaker 3: That's so
cool.
>> Speaker 2: Find the smallest one first.
Yes.
So you go left until there's
nothing left and then you go right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yep, yep, yep.
But you can't.
When you get to 11 you have
to switch to left again.
>> Speaker 3: Think about if there were
more levels to that.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: Well if you're on the left
line you go to the- One of the above?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: So
just know, what's that?
>> Speaker 2: We call the left?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, so
we start at the left, exactly.
So we have to start at the route null.
We don't have a choice.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I was gonna
say thanks, Obama, but
I don't know if that's appropriate to be
political.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: I stopped myself and
then I went there, whatever.
So we start at 11, and then we have
two choices, we can go right, or
we can go left.
So which way do you,
we have to go left, right?
And we're at 7, and then we have
to go left, or we can go right.
We have to go left.
Go left, right?
Do we see a pattern here?
So you go left and then we're calling
a function on each of these data points.
That's a transformation, right?
We're not just like getting and
then moving on through life.
We wanna actually do some
work on each of these nodes.
Cool, so we go left left left,
then we do some work.
There's a callback function,
our excited number function
that puts exclamation points.
Then, perhaps,
we pop out maybe from a recursive call,
maybe, I don't know, and
then we want to go right.
Sorry, then we wanna do it
with the current one, right?
So we pop out of that.
We want to call it, on our current node,
5, because it's the next one.
Then we want to go right and
call it on our right node, 6.
And then maybe we'll pop
out somehow back to 7.
And then, wait.
It's the same thing all over again.
Just like the left.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: The right.
And then we're going to pop back
out to our top root node, okay?
All right.
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Why
is this not showing?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Okay.
>> Speaker 2: I didn't think the trees had
knowledge of their-
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Of their parents.
[LAUGH]
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Bianca Gandolfo: [LAUGH] They're orphan
trees.
>> Speaker 2: You know what I mean?
How is 6 getting onto 7?
>> Bianca Gandolfo: Yeah, they don't.
That's the thing is they don't have,
well, I mean it's a loop
data structure right, so
they're all together in the same world.
Did I say loop data structure?
I meant nested.
Nested data structure.
So they all live in the same world, but
they don't necessarily have a pointer.
There's no like, this.parent.value, right?
There could be,
you could implement that, but
we don't do that with our
binary search stream.
We don't have to,
>> Bianca Gandolfo: And we'll see why.